Improve "Create your first kata" tutorial (#317)
codewars/docs: content/authoring/tutorials/create-first-kata.mdx

import ThemedImage from "@theme/ThemedImage";

Kata on Codewars are created by regular users who want to share their ideas with the community and create challenges for others to train on. After solving a few kata, many users often find that they want to contribute back to the community with kata of their own. Not only can authoring a kata be a great learning experience, well-crafted kata are a source of great fun for everyone.

> However, first-time authors – regardless of programming experience – may not realize that creating a good quality kata from scratch is a much more involved task than solving one, as it requires a wider mindset and broader set of skills (if that sounds intimidating, don't be discouraged: that's what this tutorial is for!). In many ways authoring a kata is closer to what would be considered a "professional" task: it requires designing a challenge with a diverse target audience in mind, writing a solution, creating tests, handling feedback from users, and finally maintaining it via bug-fixes. Every kata is a like a small software product in and of itself and goes through the equivalent of a full software development lifecycle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, first-time authors – regardless of programming experience – may not realize that creating a good quality kata from scratch is a much more involved task than solving one, as it requires a wider mindset and broader set of skills (if that sounds intimidating, don't be discouraged: that's what this tutorial is for!). In many ways authoring a kata is closer to what would be considered a "professional" task: it requires designing a challenge with a diverse target audience in mind, implementing a solution, creating tests, handling feedback from users, and finally maintaining them. Every kata is like a small software product and goes through an equivalent of a full software development lifecycle.
```

## Support for authors

To support you in this challenging task, we have provided some helpful resources:

- Tutorials for users new to the authoring process.

> - [Guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) which must be respected in order to meet the Codewars quality criteria. It is strongly recommended to become familiar with these, otherwise you risk receiving negative feedback on your newly created kata, including numerous issue reports and possibly harsh remarks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) which must be respected in order to meet the Codewars quality criteria. It is strongly recommended becoming familiar with these, otherwise you risk receiving negative feedback on your newly created kata, including numerous issue reports and possibly harsh remarks.
```

The _only time_ non-compiling code is acceptable is when it is an _intrinsic part if the challenge_, for example when the kata focuses explicitly on debugging or involves solving language-specific compile-time problems. In any other case, **it is considered a kata issue if the initial solution does not compile**. To avoid this, you must obviously supply some kind of placeholder code or "dummy" implementation which, depending on the chosen language, typically takes the form of a no-op or return statement. Note that this placeholder code _only needs to satisfy the compiler_, but may (and likely will) lead to run-time errors if not replaced by the user.

The same rule applies to interpreted languages (e.g. JavaScript, Python, Ruby): the initial solution must not contain syntax errors and/or (top-level) reference errors that prevent the user from immediately implementing their solution.

Examples:
```csharp
// C#
public class Kata
{
    public static string RepeatString(string s, int n)
    {

>         return "";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Return the zero value so this compiles.
        return "";
```

    }
}
```
```python
# Python
def repeat_string(s, n):

>     pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Avoid syntax error with `pass`.
    pass
```

  }}
/>

## How to create a good kata

While everyone enjoys an interesting and well-crafted kata, no one likes to struggle with poorly authored challenges. That said, it is often difficult to identify good and bad kata qualities and determine what sets them apart, especially for unexperienced authors. There are a few factors that have a drastic influence on the enjoyment other users will experience solving your kata and, as a result, the feedback it will receive.

### Kata ideas and duplicates

At the time of writing, there are already **~7000** approved kata and over 2000 kata in beta status. With such a vast selection of kata, chances are high that your idea may not be unique - popular topics like FizzBuzz, Fibonacci numbers and Rotation Ciphers are virtually guaranteed to have been covered already.

> The reason we mention this is because we don't need dozens of **duplicate** FizzBuzz kata. Whenever a [kata is identified as a duplicate](https://github.com/Codewars/content-issues/wiki/List-of-Possible-Duplicate-Kata) (and it usually will), it will be retired and thus effectively removed the kata catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason we mention this is that we don't need dozens of **duplicate** FizzBuzz kata. Whenever a [kata is identified as a duplicate](https://github.com/Codewars/content-issues/wiki/List-of-Possible-Duplicate-Kata) (and it usually will), it will be retired and thus effectively removed the kata catalog.
```

  - Calculating the result of a mathematical, physical, or chemical formula. Substituting values into a formula has also been done before.
  - Simple graph search algorithms like path finding, BFS, DFS, etc. [have been covered sufficiently](https://www.codewars.com/collections/bfs-shitpost).
- **[Search for keywords](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/?q=&) to find out if someone has already done something similar.** Not only basic topics have been extensively covered ([Fibonacci numbers](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/?q=fibonacci&), [factorials](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/?q=factorial&&order_by=rank_id%20asc), [FizzBuzz](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/?q=buzz&&order_by=rank_id%20asc)), even advanced topics such as [Peano](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/?q=peano) and [Church](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/?q=church) numbers have multiple similar kata dedicated to them, as the search results clearly show.
- **Solve more kata.** Doing so will offer you a better overview of what kinds of kata already exist. Having solved your 13th Fibonacci problem will help you understand why duplicates are as unpopular as they are.

### Kata quality

> Even the best idea won't save a kata from the community's critical eye if it is implemented poorly. Fortunately, there is a set of [quality guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) which, when followed properly, will ensure that all individual aspects of your kata will combine into a well-regarded experience. While it may seem like a lot to take in, do make a point of reading and understanding them so you can apply them to your kata. Remember that whenever any problems or questions arise, you can always [ask for help](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even the best idea can be ruined by poor execution. Fortunately, there is a set of [quality guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) which, when followed properly, will ensure that all individual aspects of your kata will combine into a well-regarded experience. While it may seem like a lot to take in, do make a point of reading and understanding them, so you can apply them to your kata. Remember that whenever any problems or questions arise, you can always [ask for help](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help).
```

- The more you train, the more familiar you will become with the most efficient solutions to a given problem. This is crucial knowledge for performance and golf kata: you can't author a performance kata without knowing a performant algorithm.
- Encountering and identifying issues and reading the discourse on other kata will reveal the most common issues users run in to. Learn from other people's mistakes.
- Studying solutions and, more importantly, solution comment sections will give you an insight into what constitutes good practice.
- Training on kata allows you to see how others write their tests. Writing good tests is **hard**, especially if the kata is (supposed to be) difficult. Look at the sample tests, but also take note of how submission tests are constructed and organized.
- By solving and reviewing [beta kata](https://www.codewars.com/kata/search/my-languages?q=&&xids=completed&beta=true) you can see what other authors tend to get wrong, what mistakes reviewers commonly point out and how to best resolve them.

> Be aware though that there are many old kata created a long time ago that do not hold up to current standards. The bad quality of an existing kata is not an excuse to create a sub-par one yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be aware though that there are many old kata created a long time ago that do not hold up to the current standards. The poor quality of an existing kata is not an excuse to create a sub-par one yourself.
```

- Refactoring - Rewriting and improving existing code.
- Puzzles - Extrapolating a solution from a limited set of information.

#### Estimated rank

This is where you specify how difficult you think your kata is. This value is used as an initial estimate for the kata's difficulty and will be refined by collecting rank votes from other users who solved it. Your perception of your kata's difficulty might differ from that of the community, so your kata may end up approved with a higher or lower rank than your initial choice.

#### Tags

Tags are used to classify your kata and make it easier to find via search. Some tags are derived from the assigned discipline and added automatically, but you can add more if you like.

#### Allow Contributors

You can allow other users to contribute and make changes to your kata while it undergoes the [beta process](/concepts/kata/beta-process/). However, even when you do not allow contributors, certain users with sufficient privilege will still be able to edit your kata if it has pending issues or requires fixing.

You can check the list of [privileges](/gamification/privileges/#privileges) to see who can modify your kata.

### Description

> The description field is where you provide the information and instructions users require to train on your kata. This field recognizes [Github flavored markdown](/references/markdown/) with a set of [Codewars extensions](/references/markdown/extensions/). Use the `Preview` tab to see how it will look like when presented to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The description field is where you provide the information and instructions users require when training on your kata. This field recognizes [Github flavored markdown](/references/markdown/) with a set of [Codewars extensions](/references/markdown/extensions/). Use the `Preview` tab to see how it will look like when presented to users.
```

#### Initial Solution

The initial solution is the code users are provided with when they start training on your kata. How you set up your initial solution code will depend heavily on the discipline you selected. Bug-fixing and refactoring disciplines require the inclusion of a partially or fully working solution respectively within this block. For fundamentals and algorithm disciplines you will likely only include skeleton code, such as an empty function, class or other code that serves as a starting point for a user's solution. In some cases you may just want to include a few helpful comments to help get the user started, but no actual code itself.

Special care must be taken when providing code for the initial solution. You may have encountered a situation yourself where the provided initial solution was incorrect (e.g. code that wouldn't compile, function signatures that differed from the tests or description, etc.). Hunting down the required information in the description or sample tests is an exercise in frustration and, more importantly, a waste of time that should have been spent actually *solving* the kata.

> The _only time_ non-compiling code is acceptable is when it is an _intrinsic part if the challenge_, for example when the kata focuses explicitly on debugging or involves solving language-specific compile-time problems. In any other case, **it is considered a kata issue of the initial solution does not compile**. To avoid this, you must obviously supply some kind of placeholder code or "dummy" implementation which, depending on the chosen language, typically takes the form of a no-op or return statement. Note that this placeholder code _only needs to satisfy the compiler_, but may (and likely will) lead to run-time errors if not replaced by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _only time_ non-compiling code is acceptable is when it is an _intrinsic part if the challenge_, for example when the kata focuses explicitly on debugging or involves solving language-specific compile-time problems. In any other case, **it is considered a kata issue if the initial solution does not compile**. To avoid this, you must obviously supply some kind of placeholder code or "dummy" implementation which, depending on the chosen language, typically takes the form of a no-op or return statement. Note that this placeholder code _only needs to satisfy the compiler_, but may (and likely will) lead to run-time errors if not replaced by the user.
```

The same rule applies to interpreted languages (e.g. JavaScript, Python, Ruby): the initial solution must not contain syntax errors and/or (top-level) reference errors that prevent the user from immediately implementing their solution.

Examples:

> ```CSharp

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```csharp
````

// C#
public class Kata
{
    public static string RepeatString(string s, int n)
    {

>         // your code goes here

Reviewer: Kind of off-topic, but I never liked these comments. It might also be misleading some uses that they can't edit anything outside the block.

Author: I agree completely. I added them because it is what I see on 99% of kata out there.

>         // your code goes here

Author: ```suggestion
```

        return "";
    }
}
```

> ```Python

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```python
````

# Python
def repeat_string(s, n):

>     # your code goes here

Author: ```suggestion

```

Tests are a very important aspect of every kata. In fact, together with the [description](#description) they play the most significant role in determining a kata's overall quality. Bad tests attract negative feedback and are a common cause of auto-retirement for beta kata. Well written tests, on the other hand, are highly appreciated by users training on a kata. Writing a good test suite requires a lot of thought and work, and commonly proves the most difficult aspect of kata creation – it often requires more code than the actual solution. Make sure to follow the [quality guidelines for submission tests](/authoring/guidelines/submission-tests/) when writing them, as they will help you avoid many common pitfalls awaiting inexperienced authors.

The essential function of a test is to perform the following two tasks:

1. Accept all conforming solutions
2. Reject all non-conforming solutions

It may seem that point 2 is encapsulated implicitly in point 1, but this is not the case. Tests that allow both correct and incorrect solutions to pass are pointless. Properly constructed test suites accept _all_ correct – _and only_ correct – solutions and reject all others.

> A comprehensive set of tests should cover all of the following aspects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A comprehensive set of tests should cover all the following aspects:
```

## Before publishing

When you have finally written all the code, prettified the description, and verified the tests, you'll probably consider your kata good to go. But this is a very good moment to take a step back and hold off on publishing your kata, at least for a short while. It's possible you were focused so hard on writing your kata that you ended up missing some issues or possible improvements. Take your time ensuring your kata is truly ready to be published; while minor issues are expected during the beta process, if users find too many problems that you have overlooked, you risk your kata being downvoted or, in the worst case, instantly retired.

### Train on your kata

A good first step is to train on your own kata. Taking the place of a potential user is a great way of checking what others will experience while solving your task. Although a Kata in Draft status cannot be completed, it's still possible to train on it. Just open your kata in the trainer and try to solve it as any other user would do. This way, you might spot problems with the tests or initial solution that you previously missed.

### Verify quality guidelines

> The next step should be to read through the [authoring guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) again, using them as a checklist to verify that your kata conforms to the applicable rules. Remember that the guidelines were collected based on the community's experience with many bad quality kata published back in the early days, so take them seriously and approach them with proper attention. If you do not understand a guideline or you are not sure whether your kata violates it, just join [the Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help) ask more experienced users for advice.

Author: ```suggestion
The next step should be to read through the [authoring guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) again, using them as a checklist to verify that your kata conforms to the applicable rules. Remember that the guidelines were collected based on the community's experience with many poor quality kata published back in the early days, so take them seriously and approach them with proper attention. If you do not understand a guideline or you are not sure whether your kata violates it, just join [the Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help) to ask more experienced users for advice.
```

> The next step should be to read through the [authoring guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) again, using them as a checklist to verify that your kata conforms to the applicable rules. Remember that the guidelines were collected based on the community's experience with many bad quality kata published back in the early days, so take them seriously and approach them with proper attention. If you do not understand a guideline or you are not sure whether your kata violates it, just join [the Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help) ask more experienced users for advice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step should be to read through the [authoring guidelines](/authoring/guidelines/) again, using them as a checklist to verify that your kata conforms to the applicable rules. Remember that the guidelines were collected based on the community's experience with many poor quality kata published back in the early days, so take them seriously and approach them with proper attention. If you do not understand a guideline or you are not sure whether your kata violates it, just join [the Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help) to ask more experienced users for an advice.
```

### Ask for a review of your draft

> Kata in draft status are not listed and cannot be searched for, however users with direct links can still access them. You can share the link to an as of yet unpublished kata with others users [on Gitter](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help) and they will be able to read the description, train on the kata, and provide feedback, before getting a chance to rate it. This a great way to get quick feedback about the most obvious problems while you're working out the kinks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kata in draft status are not listed and cannot be searched for, however users with direct links can still access them. You can share the link with others [on Gitter](https://gitter.im/Codewars/codewars.com/kata-authoring-help) and they will be able to read the description, train on the kata, and provide feedback, before getting a chance to rate it. This a great way to get quick feedback about the most obvious problems while you're working out the kinks.
```

## After publishing

After you publish your kata, it becomes subject to the [beta evaluation](/concepts/kata/beta-process/) process. At this point, power users will immediately jump on it, knowing they _will_ find problems, the discourse section will be flooded with issue reports and, unless you managed to avoid any serious issues, the satisfaction rating might start to drop. This may be discouraging at first, especially for first-time authors, but it is also to be expected; after all, no one wants an unfinished kata to get out of beta, right? That's why it is so important to make sure that when your kata is published, it's already in as good a shape as possible.

> That said, no matter how hard you try, you can never satisfy everone. Even if your kata receives overwhelmingly positive votes, some users might still not like it. Do not worry about this too much, but do not disregard their feedback either. Give their remarks some consideration, they may point out ways in which your kata can be improved. Listen to everyone, answer their questions, consider suggestions, and fix any issues that crop up. Also, do not rush things too much. If someone says something you are not sure about, just wait for another opinion. Then again, users tend to disagree a lot, and so might offer contradicting suggestions. It can be difficult, but in such cases you need to either find a compromise or just pick one option over the other and move forward. Your mindset and approach to the beta process matter: experience shows that kata whose authors engage actively and constructively in the process tend to graduate out of beta quite quickly, whereas other kata get retired within minutes, or, perhaps worse, never leave beta status due to the author's unwillingness to accept advice or fix issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That said, no matter how hard you try, you can never satisfy everyone. Even if your kata receives overwhelmingly positive votes, some users might still not like it. Do not worry about this too much, but do not disregard their feedback either. Give their remarks some consideration, they may point out ways in which your kata can be improved. Listen to everyone, answer their questions, consider suggestions, and fix any issues that crop up. Also, do not rush things too much. If someone says something you are not sure about, just wait for another opinion. Then again, users tend to disagree a lot, and so might offer contradicting suggestions. It can be difficult, but in such cases you need to either find a compromise or just pick one option over the other and move forward. Your mindset and approach to the beta process matter: experience shows that kata whose authors engage actively and constructively in the process tend to graduate out of beta quite quickly, whereas other kata get retired within minutes, or, perhaps worse, never leave beta status due to the author's unwillingness to accept advice or fix issues.
```

Author: Not sure if I'm missing something in this suggestion as it appears to produce no changes?

Reviewer: Hmm, not sure why the diff isn't highlighting `y`. But it's a single character change in a really long line.

Just `s/everone/everyone/` in the first sentence.

Reviewer: I was planning to commit the typos myself, but forgot to.

The _only time_ non-compiling code is acceptable is when it is an _intrinsic part if the challenge_, for example when the kata focuses explicitly on debugging or involves solving language-specific compile-time problems. In any other case, **it is considered a kata issue of the initial solution does not compile**. To avoid this, you must obviously supply some kind of placeholder code or "dummy" implementation which, depending on the chosen language, typically takes the form of a no-op or return statement. Note that this placeholder code _only needs to satisfy the compiler_, but may (and likely will) lead to run-time errors if not replaced by the user.

The same rule applies to interpreted languages (e.g. JavaScript, Python, Ruby): the initial solution must not contain syntax errors and/or (top-level) reference errors that prevent the user from immediately implementing their solution.

Examples:
```CSharp
// C#
public class Kata
{
    public static string RepeatString(string s, int n)
    {
        // your code goes here
        return "";
    }
}
```
```Python
# Python
def repeat_string(s, n):
    # your code goes here
    pass

> ```

Author: Example code added for illustration purposes, to show what a "correctly compiling initial solution" looks like.
